---
title: "Freebird v2 released!"
date: 2024-02-11T05:01:14
slug: "v2-released"
tags:
  - freebird
---

Cross-posted from [Freebird's blog](https://freebirdxr.com/blog/2024/02/11/v2-released).

# Freebird v2 released!

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8dSEtIqdQwg"></iframe>

v2 is a fundamental re-write of Freebird's code, to allow new features to be developed much faster (than before). It also adds a few new features like the ability to pose/edit bones of armatures, use your mouse while using VR, and edit mesh elements. The behavior of a few existing features have been changed, in response to user feedback.

Finally, it improves the basic infrastructure to allow faster feedback and improvement: access to crash/app logs, 1-click update button, optional auto-updates, and an `Early Access` feature for those who like to closely guide the development while taking a bit of risk with stability!

All of these set the foundation for a faster rate of improvement and better responsiveness to user feedback. Thanks for your continued encouragement and patience, I genuinely appreciate it!

[Get started with Freebird!](https://freebirdxr.com/getting-started/){ .md-button }

## New features

- **Pose Armature Bones** - Change the pose of armature bones in POSE mode. Grab the bones using the `trigger` button on the controller with the `Select` tool, and drag the bone(s) around to change the pose.
- **Edit Armature Bones** - Delete or move armature bones in EDIT mode. Use the `Select` tool to select and drag bones, or the `Erase` tool to erase bones.
- **Use the mouse while inside VR** - Enable `Sync headset with desktop viewport` inside the `Freebird Settings` menu. This will let you use your mouse to select objects while staying inside VR. It will display a laser pointer in VR, indicating where your mouse is pointing at on the desktop screen.
- **Delete elements in EDIT mode** - Delete mesh vertices/edges/faces and curve points in EDIT mode.

## Better infrastructure

- **Debugging logs** - Easy access to crash and application logs, to help report and investigate problems. If you're reporting a problem with Freebird, sharing these logs will help a **LOT** in identifying the problem. These logs reside only on your PC, they are not transmitted anywhere, and do not contain any personal information. These logs can be accessed from Freebird's preferences panel (inside `Edit > Preferences > Addons > Freebird`), by clicking the `Open Crash Log` or `Open Current App Log` buttons.
- **1-click update** - 1-click button to update Freebird to the latest version. You no longer need to manually download the new zip file and install - it will be done for you with one click of the button.
- **Auto update** - (optional) Enable `Update automatically` (in `Freebird Settings`) to automatically update to the latest version of Freebird when Blender starts. This update will happen in the background, so it won't slow down Blender while starting.
- **Early Access** - (optional) Enable `Early Access` (in `Freebird Settings`) to get the latest features as soon as they are ready. These features may be less stable, but this will help guide the development very closely, through your testing and feedback. Once the new features have been tested and considered stable for most Early Access users, they will be released to everybody.
- **Lots of automated tests** - Over 950 automated tests cover different aspects of Freebird, to improve Freebird's reliability and stability while you're working on your projects.

## Changes to existing features

The UI will be changing frequently for a while, since the project is still in early development. I apologize if the changes cause you any inconvenience. If it is really bothering you, please let me know on the #ideas-and-feedback channel on the [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/X6B4ZYEWSS) or [email me](mailto:dev@freebirdxr.com).

- Undo/redo is now performed by pushing the joystick left/right on the alternate hand.
- New behavior: 1-click clone by grabbing an object (with the `squeeze` button), and then pressing the `Clone` button on the main controller.

    You can press the `Clone` button multiple times (while grabbing) to create multiple objects while moving the controller (i.e. one object per click). This is useful for quickly creating several copies at different locations.