---
title: "Post from Sep 24, 2025"
date: 2025-09-24T07:33:11
slug: "1758699191"
tags:
  - cities
  - findstarlink
---

Released [cities-db](https://github.com/findstarlink/cities-db), a database of ~32,000 cities (cities in the world with population > 15,000), compressed into a format suitable for auto-complete on web pages (~283 KB) or mobile apps.

The data is fetched from [GeoNames.org](GeoNames.org), and processed into a custom format.

### Why?
This library was created for [findstarlink.com](findstarlink.com). It would be pretty expensive to use the Google Maps API for auto-complete, or host a dedicated API endpoint. And I don't see why we need a remote service for this.

Bandwidth usage accounts for the majority of FindStarlink's running costs (even after using a CDN). So it was pretty important to keep this library's file size as small as possible.

### What does this do?
Achieves significant compression through:

* Delta encoding for sorted geohashes
* Delta encoding for region/country IDs
* String tokenization for city/region/country names
* Binary format with minimal overhead

The naive approach would be to store the data as an SQLite database, which results in a compressed file size of 1.4 MB (2.55 MB uncompressed).

This library produces a bundle size of just 283 KB (573 KB uncompressed), by using the methods described above.

This makes it quite useful for transferring over the web - for a fast, fully-local auto-complete dropdown of most of the major cities of the world.