---
title: "Post from Jun 11, 2026"
date: 2026-06-11T05:49:31
slug: "1781156971"
tags:
  - flare
  - carbon
  - ai
---

Bah. I just lost the entire list of test cases that I spent most of yesterday collecting and planning.

Over the past few months, I've been using a new text editor that I wrote for myself using AI. I haven't really reviewed even a single line of code for the text editor, and it's worked fairly well over the months. Yes, it's vibe-coded in the full meaning of the word, and now the bill has come due.

Today, some weird bug caused the entire text file to get deleted.

This is a bitter lesson for trusting vibecoded stuff for things that need reliability. AI is ultimately a tool, and it'll write what I tell it to write, and won't write what I don't tell it to write. There's no point in blaming your tools.

It's tempting to feel like "I wouldn't have written such an inconsistent system", and it's probably true as well. But it was my responsibility to get AI to write test cases related to data reliability (and then for me to review them thoroughly), and I didn't do that.

Later edit: Fortunately I remembered the final list, and was able to rewrite my test cases in less than half an hour (what I spent almost the entire day yesterday collecting!). :)

But I'll really have to audit the data storage logic of my editor now, and get a lot of tests added for ensuring reliability. It's pretty scary, I have no idea what the AI wrote.

I'm going to continue using my custom editor (it solves an important problem for me), and use this experience and fear of data loss as a forcing function to audit the code, and design the internal system myself.